README.md, before:

# Warden

Interactive CLI for bootstrapping Warden agents with support for both A2A and LangGraph protocols.

## Getting Started

Install the CLI globally:

```bash
npm install -g warden-code
```

Then run it with:

```bash
warden
```

Or just run it directly:

```bash
npx warden-code
```

This launches an interactive CLI where you can create new agents.

### Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/new [path]` | Create a new agent interactively [optionally provide a path] |
| `/build [path]` | Enter AI-powered build mode to modify your agent via chat |
| `/chat <url>` | Chat with a running agent via A2A or LangGraph |
| `/config [path] [show]` | View and edit agent configuration (identity, server, skills, payments) |
| `/help` | Show available commands |
| `/clear` | Clear the terminal |
| `/exit` | Exit the CLI |

## Creating an Agent

Run `/new` to start the agent creation wizard:

1. **Agent name** - a name for your agent
2. **Description** - what your agent does
3. **Model** - Echo (just a demo that echoes input) or OpenAI (GPT-powered)
4. **Capability** - Streaming or Multi-turn conversations
5. **Skills** - Define agent capabilities (optional)
6. **x402 Payments** - Optionally gate requests behind per-request USDC payments (see [x402 Payments](#x402-payments) below)

Skills are automatically tagged with [OASF](https://docs.agntcy.org/oasf/open-agentic-schema-framework/) categories based on their name and description. Tags use the format `oasf:<path>` (e.g., `oasf:natural_language/generation/dialogue_generation`) and appear in the generated `agent-card.json`.

After generation, your agent will be ready at `src/agent.ts`.

## Models

| Model | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| **Echo + Streaming** | Minimal streaming agent that echoes input |
| **Echo + Multi-turn** | Minimal multi-turn conversation agent |
| **OpenAI + Streaming** | GPT-powered agent with streaming responses |
| **OpenAI + Multi-turn** | GPT-powered agent with conversation history |

All options use `AgentServer` from `@wardenprotocol/agent-kit`, which exposes both:
- **A2A Protocol**
- **LangGraph Protocol**

## Generated Project Structure

```
my-agent/
├── src/
│   ├── agent.ts      # Your agent logic (handler function)
│   ├── server.ts     # Server setup, static file serving, protocol routing
│   └── payments.ts   # x402 payment setup (only when payments enabled)
├── public/
│   ├── index.html    # Chat front-end (auto-loads agent card, skills, x402 wallets)
│   ├── agent-registration.json   # ERC-8004 registration metadata
│   └── .well-known/
│       ├── agent-card.json           # Agent identity, capabilities, skills (A2A)
│       └── agent-registration.json   # ERC-8004 registration metadata
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
├── Dockerfile
├── .env.example
└── .gitignore
```

## Running Your Agent

```bash
cd my-agent
npm run build
npm start
```

Your agent will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

### Front-end

Every scaffolded agent includes a chat front-end at `http://localhost:3000/`. It loads the agent card from `/.well-known/agent-card.json` and displays the agent name, description, capabilities, and provider info. Example prompts from skills are shown as clickable conversation starters. If the agent card has an `image` field, it is used as the page favicon. Agent responses are rendered as GitHub-flavored markdown (headings, code blocks, lists, tables, links).

When x402 payments are enabled, the front-end reads `agent-registration.json` on page load and shows a MetaMask wallet connect button. On mobile browsers, the button becomes "Open in MetaMask" and redirects to MetaMask's in-app browser via deep link. Payment transaction hashes in responses link to the appropriate block explorer.

### Reputation

When the agent's `agent-registration.json` has entries in `registrations[]`, the front-end enables ERC-8004 reputation features:

- **Reputation display**: aggregated on-chain reputation (star rating, numeric score, review count) shown in the info bar, fetched from the ReputationRegistry across all registered chains
- **Feedback submission**: each agent response shows a 5-star rating row; clicking a star submits `giveFeedback` to the ReputationRegistry on the cheapest available L2 (auto-switches MetaMask if needed)
- **Self-rating prevention**: a pre-flight `isAuthorizedOrOwner` check prevents the MetaMask transaction popup when the agent owner tries to rate their own agent

Reputation is purely front-end (no server changes). The `registrations[]` array in `agent-registration.json` drives everything. Fill it in after registering your agent on-chain via the [ERC-8004 contracts](https://github.com/erc-8004/erc-8004-contracts). Each entry has the format:

```json
{
  "agentId": 853,
  "agentRegistry": "eip155:84532:0x8004A818BFB912233c491871b3d84c89A494BD9e"
}
```

The `public/` directory is served as static files. Add any additional assets (icons, stylesheets, scripts) and they will be available at their corresponding URL paths.

## x402 Payments

Every scaffolded agent includes [x402](https://x402.org) payment infrastructure (Coinbase's HTTP 402 payment protocol). Payments are disabled by default and activate when you configure payment environment variables. Clients that support x402 (such as `@x402/fetch`) automatically handle the payment flow: the server returns HTTP 402 with payment requirements, the client signs a USDC transaction, and the server verifies payment before processing the request.

### Enabling payments

You can configure payments in two ways:

1. **During `/new`**: choose "Enable x402 payments" when prompted, select a network, wallet, and price
2. **After scaffolding**: run `/config`, select "Payments", and add a payment network

At runtime, the server reads payment variables from `.env`. When no `PAY_TO` variables are set, the agent starts without the payment middleware.

### Configuration

Each payment network uses three environment variables with a shared prefix:

| Prefix | Network |
|--------|---------|
| `X402_BASE_SEPOLIA` | Base Sepolia (testnet) |
| `X402_BASE` | Base (mainnet) |

A single facilitator URL is shared across all networks:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `X402_FACILITATOR_URL` | Payment facilitator endpoint (testnet default: `x402.org`, mainnet default: `facilitator.payai.network`) |

For each prefix, three variables control the network config:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `X402_<PREFIX>_PAY_TO` | Wallet address to receive payments (set to enable, remove to disable) |
| `X402_<PREFIX>_PRICE` | Price per request in USDC (default: `0.01`) |
| `X402_<PREFIX>_NETWORK` | Network identifier (pre-filled) |

Example `.env` section for Base Sepolia:

```bash
X402_FACILITATOR_URL=https://x402.org/facilitator

# Base Sepolia (testnet)
X402_BASE_SEPOLIA_PAY_TO=0xYourAddress
X402_BASE_SEPOLIA_PRICE=0.01
X402_BASE_SEPOLIA_NETWORK=eip155:84532
```

To disable a network, remove its `PAY_TO` value. To disable payments entirely, remove all `PAY_TO` values. All available networks are listed in `.env.example` (active ones uncommented, others commented out for easy enabling).

### Networks

| Network | ID | Pay-to format |
|---------|-----|---------------|
| Base Sepolia (testnet) | `eip155:84532` | `0x` + 40 hex chars |
| Base (mainnet) | `eip155:8453` | `0x` + 40 hex chars |

Testnet networks are recommended for development. They work with the default x402.org facilitator and use testnet USDC (no real funds required).

### Facilitator

Set `X402_FACILITATOR_URL` in `.env` to your facilitator of choice. The wizard defaults to `https://x402.org/facilitator` for testnet networks and `https://facilitator.payai.network` for mainnet.

The [PayAI facilitator](https://facilitator.payai.network) offers 1,000 free settlements per month. For higher volumes, create a merchant account at [merchant.payai.network](https://merchant.payai.network) and set `PAYAI_API_KEY_ID` and `PAYAI_API_KEY_SECRET` in your `.env`. Authentication is handled automatically via the `@payai/facilitator` package when the facilitator URL contains `payai.network`.

### Generated dependencies

When x402 is enabled, the following packages are added to the generated agent:

- `express` and `@types/express`
- `@x402/express` (payment middleware)
- `@x402/core` (protocol types and facilitator client)
- `@payai/facilitator` (facilitator authentication)
- `@x402/evm` (EVM payment scheme verification)

## Build Mode

Run `/build` inside a scaffolded project to enter an AI-powered chat session. Describe the changes you want and the LLM will modify your agent code directly. Responses stream token-by-token with real-time display.

On first run, the wizard prompts for an AI provider (OpenAI or Anthropic), model, and API key. This configuration is stored in `~/.warden/config.json` and shared across all agent projects. Type `/model` at any time to switch provider or model without leaving the session.

After the AI applies code changes, the project is automatically rebuilt (`npm run build`). If `package.json` was modified, `npm install` runs first. When the build fails, the error output is fed back to the AI for automatic correction (up to 2 retries). The coding agent receives the installed `@wardenprotocol/agent-kit` type definitions as context, so it works with actual APIs rather than guessing.

While in build mode you can type `/chat` to talk to your running agent without leaving the session. The URL is resolved automatically from your project's `.env` (`AGENT_URL`), or you can pass it explicitly (e.g. `/chat http://localhost:3000`). Type `/exit` inside the chat sub-session to return to build mode.

## Chatting with an Agent

Run `/chat http://localhost:3000` to interact with a running agent. The CLI auto-detects whether the agent supports A2A, LangGraph, or both, and prompts you to choose when multiple protocols are available.

## Hosting Your Agent

To host your agent on a server, you can use a cloud provider like AWS, Google Cloud, or Azure. You can also use a containerization platform like [Render.com](https://render.com/) to deploy your agent as a Docker container.

## License

Apache-2.0

Commit message:

docs: update changelog and readme for v1.11.0

README.md, after:

# Warden

Interactive CLI for bootstrapping Warden agents with support for both A2A and LangGraph protocols.

## Getting Started

Install the CLI globally:

```bash
npm install -g warden-code
```

Then run it with:

```bash
warden
```

Or just run it directly:

```bash
npx warden-code
```

This launches an interactive CLI where you can create new agents.

### Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/new [path]` | Create a new agent interactively [optionally provide a path] |
| `/build [path]` | Enter AI-powered build mode to modify your agent via chat |
| `/chat <url>` | Chat with a running agent via A2A or LangGraph |
| `/config [path] [show]` | View and edit agent configuration (identity, server, skills, payments) |
| `/register [path]` | Register agent on-chain via ERC-8004 Identity Registry |
| `/activate [path]` | Activate a registered agent on all chains |
| `/deactivate [path]` | Deactivate a registered agent on all chains |
| `/help` | Show available commands |
| `/clear` | Clear the terminal |
| `/exit` | Exit the CLI |

## Creating an Agent

Run `/new` to start the agent creation wizard:

1. **Agent name** - a name for your agent
2. **Description** - what your agent does
3. **Model** - Echo (just a demo that echoes input) or OpenAI (GPT-powered)
4. **Capability** - Streaming or Standard (response arrives all at once)
5. **Skills** - Define agent capabilities (optional)
6. **x402 Payments** - Optionally gate requests behind per-request USDC payments (see [x402 Payments](#x402-payments) below)

Skills are automatically tagged with [OASF](https://docs.agntcy.org/oasf/open-agentic-schema-framework/) categories based on their name and description. Tags use the format `oasf:<path>` (e.g., `oasf:natural_language/generation/dialogue_generation`) and appear in the generated `agent-card.json`.

After generation, your agent will be ready at `src/agent.ts`.

## Models

| Model | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| **Echo + Streaming** | Minimal streaming agent that echoes input |
| **Echo + Standard** | Minimal agent that echoes input (non-streaming) |
| **OpenAI + Streaming** | GPT-powered agent with streaming responses |
| **OpenAI + Standard** | GPT-powered agent with conversation history (non-streaming) |

All options use `AgentServer` from `@wardenprotocol/agent-kit`, which exposes both:
- **A2A Protocol**
- **LangGraph Protocol**

## Generated Project Structure

```
my-agent/
├── src/
│   ├── agent.ts      # Your agent logic (handler function)
│   ├── server.ts     # Server setup, static file serving, protocol routing
│   └── payments.ts   # x402 payment setup (only when payments enabled)
├── public/
│   ├── index.html    # Chat front-end (auto-loads agent card, skills, x402 wallets)
│   └── .well-known/
│       ├── agent-card.json           # Agent identity, capabilities, skills (A2A)
│       └── agent-registration.json   # ERC-8004 registration metadata
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.json
├── Dockerfile
├── .env.example
└── .gitignore
```

## Running Your Agent

```bash
cd my-agent
npm run build
npm start
```

Your agent will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

### Front-end

Every scaffolded agent includes a chat front-end at `http://localhost:3000/`. It loads the agent card from `/.well-known/agent-card.json` and displays the agent name, description, capabilities, and provider info. Example prompts from skills are shown as clickable conversation starters. If the agent card has an `image` field, it is used as the page favicon. Agent responses are rendered as GitHub-flavored markdown (headings, code blocks, lists, tables, links).

When x402 payments are enabled, the front-end reads `agent-registration.json` on page load and shows a MetaMask wallet connect button. On mobile browsers, the button becomes "Open in MetaMask" and redirects to MetaMask's in-app browser via deep link. Payment transaction hashes in responses link to the appropriate block explorer.

### Registration

Run `/register` to register your agent on the [ERC-8004 Identity Registry](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-8004). This mints an agent NFT on your chosen chain and sets the agent URI pointing to your `agent-registration.json`. The CLI validates your configuration before registration (name, description, production URL, skills) and supports 30 EVM chains (14 testnets, 16 mainnets).

After registration, `/activate` and `/deactivate` toggle the agent's `active` flag in the registration file and push the update to all registered chains.

Pre-registration checks run automatically:
- **Errors** (block registration): missing name, missing description, localhost URL
- **Warnings** (require confirmation): no skills, short description, skills missing name or description

### Reputation

When the agent's `agent-registration.json` has entries in `registrations[]`, the front-end enables ERC-8004 reputation features:

- **Reputation display**: aggregated on-chain reputation (star rating, numeric score, review count) shown in the info bar, fetched from the ReputationRegistry across all registered chains
- **Feedback submission**: each agent response shows a 5-star rating row; clicking a star submits `giveFeedback` to the ReputationRegistry on the cheapest available L2 (auto-switches MetaMask if needed)
- **Self-rating prevention**: a pre-flight `isAuthorizedOrOwner` check prevents the MetaMask transaction popup when the agent owner tries to rate their own agent

Reputation is purely front-end (no server changes). The `registrations[]` array in `agent-registration.json` drives everything and is populated automatically by the `/register` command. Each entry has the format:

```json
{
  "agentId": 853,
  "agentRegistry": "eip155:84532:0x8004A818BFB912233c491871b3d84c89A494BD9e"
}
```

The `public/` directory is served as static files. Add any additional assets (icons, stylesheets, scripts) and they will be available at their corresponding URL paths.

## x402 Payments

Every scaffolded agent includes [x402](https://x402.org) payment infrastructure (Coinbase's HTTP 402 payment protocol). Payments are disabled by default and activate when you configure payment environment variables. Clients that support x402 (such as `@x402/fetch`) automatically handle the payment flow: the server returns HTTP 402 with payment requirements, the client signs a USDC transaction, and the server verifies payment before processing the request.

### Enabling payments

You can configure payments in two ways:

1. **During `/new`**: choose "Enable x402 payments" when prompted, select a network, wallet, and price
2. **After scaffolding**: run `/config`, select "Payments", and add a payment network

At runtime, the server reads payment variables from `.env`. When no `PAY_TO` variables are set, the agent starts without the payment middleware.

### Configuration

Each payment network uses three environment variables with a shared prefix:

| Prefix | Network |
|--------|---------|
| `X402_BASE_SEPOLIA` | Base Sepolia (testnet) |
| `X402_BASE` | Base (mainnet) |

A single facilitator URL is shared across all networks:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `X402_FACILITATOR_URL` | Payment facilitator endpoint (testnet default: `x402.org`, mainnet default: `facilitator.payai.network`) |

For each prefix, three variables control the network config:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `X402_<PREFIX>_PAY_TO` | Wallet address to receive payments (set to enable, remove to disable) |
| `X402_<PREFIX>_PRICE` | Price per request in USDC (default: `0.01`) |
| `X402_<PREFIX>_NETWORK` | Network identifier (pre-filled) |

Example `.env` section for Base Sepolia:

```bash
X402_FACILITATOR_URL=https://x402.org/facilitator

# Base Sepolia (testnet)
X402_BASE_SEPOLIA_PAY_TO=0xYourAddress
X402_BASE_SEPOLIA_PRICE=0.01
X402_BASE_SEPOLIA_NETWORK=eip155:84532
```

To disable a network, remove its `PAY_TO` value. To disable payments entirely, remove all `PAY_TO` values. All available networks are listed in `.env.example` (active ones uncommented, others commented out for easy enabling).

### Networks

| Network | ID | Pay-to format |
|---------|-----|---------------|
| Base Sepolia (testnet) | `eip155:84532` | `0x` + 40 hex chars |
| Base (mainnet) | `eip155:8453` | `0x` + 40 hex chars |

Testnet networks are recommended for development. They work with the default x402.org facilitator and use testnet USDC (no real funds required).

### Facilitator

Set `X402_FACILITATOR_URL` in `.env` to your facilitator of choice. The wizard defaults to `https://x402.org/facilitator` for testnet networks and `https://facilitator.payai.network` for mainnet.

The [PayAI facilitator](https://facilitator.payai.network) offers 1,000 free settlements per month. For higher volumes, create a merchant account at [merchant.payai.network](https://merchant.payai.network) and set `PAYAI_API_KEY_ID` and `PAYAI_API_KEY_SECRET` in your `.env`. Authentication is handled automatically via the `@payai/facilitator` package when the facilitator URL contains `payai.network`.

### Generated dependencies

When x402 is enabled, the following packages are added to the generated agent:

- `express` and `@types/express`
- `@x402/express` (payment middleware)
- `@x402/core` (protocol types and facilitator client)
- `@payai/facilitator` (facilitator authentication)
- `@x402/evm` (EVM payment scheme verification)

## Build Mode

Run `/build` inside a scaffolded project to enter an AI-powered chat session. Describe the changes you want and the LLM will modify your agent code directly. Responses stream token-by-token with real-time display.

On first run, the wizard prompts for an AI provider (OpenAI or Anthropic), model, and API key. This configuration is stored in `~/.warden/config.json` and shared across all agent projects. Type `/model` at any time to switch provider or model without leaving the session.

After the AI applies code changes, the project is automatically rebuilt (`npm run build`). If `package.json` was modified, `npm install` runs first. When the build fails, the error output is fed back to the AI for automatic correction (up to 2 retries). The coding agent receives the installed `@wardenprotocol/agent-kit` type definitions as context, so it works with actual APIs rather than guessing.

While in build mode you can type `/chat` to talk to your running agent without leaving the session. The URL is resolved automatically from your project's `.env` (`AGENT_URL`), or you can pass it explicitly (e.g. `/chat http://localhost:3000`). Type `/exit` inside the chat sub-session to return to build mode.

## Chatting with an Agent

Run `/chat http://localhost:3000` to interact with a running agent. The CLI auto-detects whether the agent supports A2A, LangGraph, or both, and prompts you to choose when multiple protocols are available.

## Hosting Your Agent

To host your agent on a server, you can use a cloud provider like AWS, Google Cloud, or Azure. You can also use a containerization platform like [Render.com](https://render.com/) to deploy your agent as a Docker container.

## License

Apache-2.0
